---
layout: post
title: "Projects"
permalink: projects
---
<h1 class="post-title p-name"><div style="text-align:center"> Projects </div></h1>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">Gender Age Detector |  Summer 2023</h2>

<p>This is a Python program that detects faces in an image and then predicts the gender and age of each detected face using pre-trained deep learning models. It performs real-time age and gender detection on faces in an image and provides visual feedback by highlighting faces and displaying the predicted age and gender on the image feed.</p>


#### Github reference: [GenderAgeDetector][gad]

[gad]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/GenderAgeDetector

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Python experience with a pre-trained deep learning model for face detection.</p></li>
        <li><p>Expertise in computer vision, specifically in face detection, by utilizing a deep learning model for detecting faces in images.</p></li>
        <li><p>Proficiency in image processing by showcasing the ability to detect faces and draw bounding boxes.</p></li>
        <li><p>Practiced visual feedback and data visualization provided by highlighting faces and displayed the predicted output on the image feed.</p></li>
        <li><p>Utilized the OpenCV library to process and visualize data on the requested image.</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">Stock Predictor |  Spring 2023</h2>

<p>This is a program predicting stock prices. It downloads stock data, creates a machine learning model, and uses a back-testing engine in an attempt to predict future stock prices.</p>


#### Github reference: [StockPredictor][stocks]

[stocks]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/StockPredictor

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Built a machine learning model from scratch in Python, involving the process of selecting features, defining the target variable, and splitting the data into training and testing sets.</p></li>
        <li><p>Explored different regression algorithms before settling on a random forest classification model to optimize my data.</p></li>
        <li><p>Honed data manipulation skills by using the pandas library. Pandas is widely used in data analysis for its powerful data structures and tools.</p></li>
        <li><p>Gained proficiency in downloading and handling financial data while working with time-series data and managing stock market-related information.</p></li>
        <li><p>Practiced data cleaning and preprocessing by managing real-world financial data.</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">WikiBot |  Fall 2022</h2>

<p>This is a program testing the Wikipedia API. The user inputs a topic, searches for the Wikipedia link using the API, and returns a summary paragraph of the topic.</p>

#### Github reference: [WikiBot][wikibot]

[wikibot]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/WikiBot

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Applied my programming logic of Python to create clean, efficient code.</p></li>
        <li><p>Learned about web scraping to extract the summary paragraph of a requested topic.</p></li>
        <li><p>Skill of integrating external APIs into coding projects, allowing the program to interact with the Wikipedia API to retrieve information.</p></li>
        <li><p>Used the nltk library to work with human language data fetched from the Wikipedia API.</p></li>
        <li><p>Demonstrated curiosity and a willingness to learn new technologies and methodologies in the field of programming and data handling.</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">Plagiarism Checker |  Summer 2022</h2>

<p>This program detects plagiarism between two text documents using cosine similarity. This is done by turning the raw text data into vectors of numbers, then comparing the vectors to compute the similarity between the two.</p>


#### Github reference: [PlagiarismChecker][plagiarismChecker]

[plagiarismChecker]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/PlagiarismChecker

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Enhanced my algorithmic thinking in Python to properly understand the steps to transform raw text data into vectors and computing their similarity.</p></li>
        <li><p>Practiced problem-solving skills with challenges related to text processing, vectorization, and similarity computation.</p></li>
        <li><p>Conducted several techniques to convert textual data into numerical vectors.</p></li>
        <li><p>Analyzed, interpreted, and understood the implications of the computed similarity score between two documents.</p></li>
        <li><p>Acquired knowledge of the cosine similarity metric to measure the similarity between two non-zero vectors by calculating the cosine of the angle between them.</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">Capstone Gemini Face Mask Detector |  Fall 2021</h2>

<p>This project served as an opportunity to demonstrate my technical skills and leadership abilities. As the team lead, I spearheaded the development of a comprehensive system designed to ensure compliance with health and safety guidelines. The system incorporated various functions such as face mask detection, temperature scanning, and real-time data transmission to a dedicated website. By successfully implementing these features, we created a seamless solution to monitor and enforce health protocols.</p>


#### Github reference: [f21-capgemini-cloud-fork][capstone]

[capstone]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/f21-capgemini-cloud-fork

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Proficiency in programming languages such as C, Python, JavaScript, and ADS, as well as working closely with a Raspberry Pi.</p></li>
        <li><p>Leadership abilities in spearheading the development of a comprehensive system to ensure compliance with health and safety guidelines.</p></li>
        <li><p>Experience in implementing features such as face mask detection, temperature scanning, and real-time data transmission.</p></li>
        <li><p>Utilization of Azure DevOps and GitHub for version control and collaboration, enhancing project efficiency and coordination. Project management skills in coordinating efforts, delegating tasks, and fostering a collaborative team environment.</p></li>
        <li><p>Strong problem-solving abilities in addressing critical health and safety concerns and delivering innovative solutions.
</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">Honors Programming | Fall 2019</h2>

<p>During my journey as a budding programmer, I had the opportunity to create simplified versions of beloved games such as Pokemon and Binding of Isaac. These projects allowed me to explore various programming concepts while showcasing my creativity and passion for game development.</p>


##### Github reference: [Pokemon][pokemon]
##### Github reference: [BindingOfIsaac][isaac]

[pokemon]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/Pokemon
[isaac]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/BindingofIsaac

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Proficiency in game development.</p></li>
        <li><p>Strong programming skills in designing and implementing game mechanics, such as turn-based combat, storyline progression, procedural level generation, and item acquisition.</p></li>
        <li><p>Creative problem-solving abilities in balancing complexity and user experience to deliver captivating and enjoyable gaming experiences.</p></li>
        <li><p>Attention to detail in meticulous coding and design to capture the essence of the original games.</p></li>
        <li><p>Efficient coding practices in optimizing performance and ensuring smooth functionality of the games.</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">Introduction to Programming in Java | Fall 2017</h2>


<p>One of the highlights of this course was the opportunity to collaborate with classmates in creating engaging and interactive games. Together, we successfully developed both Snake and Connect Four games, demonstrating our proficiency in Java programming concepts and problem-solving abilities.</p>


##### Github reference: [SnakeGame][snake]
##### Github reference: [ConnectFour][connect]

[snake]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/SnakeGame
[connect]: https://github.com/aubrymcc21/ConnectFour/tree/main

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Foundational knowledge and proficiency in Java programming.</p></li>
        <li><p>Collaborative skills in working effectively with classmates to develop engaging games.</p></li>
        <li><p>Problem-solving abilities in implementing game logic for the Snake game and designing an intelligent algorithm for the Connect Four game.</p></li>
        <li><p>Technical skills in programming game mechanics, navigation, and user interfaces.</p></li>
        <li><p>Strong teamwork and communication skills in dividing tasks, sharing ideas, and incorporating diverse perspectives.</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<h2 class="post-title p-name">Research Thesis | 2017-2019</h2>

<p>During my academic journey, I embarked on an ambitious two-year research thesis that delved into the intricacies of the human thought process. This project provided me with an invaluable opportunity to explore the depths of cognitive science and psychology, unraveling the mysteries of how we think and make decisions.</p>


##### GoogleDocs reference: [Thesis][thesis]

[thesis]: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_3hh_YPfpVh7G8GsfRgThRltKHKMo_L6uN8Ur-mz2bU/edit?usp=sharing

#### Skills I honed from this experience:
<p>
    <ul>
        <li><p>Knowledgeable in research methodology, including formulating research questions, designing methodologies, and analyzing data.</p></li>
        <li><p>Strong critical thinking skills for evaluating and interpreting research findings.</p></li>
        <li><p>Effective communication abilities for presenting research findings and exchanging ideas.</p></li>
        <li><p>Ability to ask the right question when conducting research as well as plenty of experience with learning new topics without aid.</p></li>
        <li><p>Attention to detail and precision in research design, data collection, and analysis.</p></li>
    </ul>
</p>

<br><br> To view more of my projects, check out my [GitHub][github].

[github]: https://github.com/orionmccree